docs[minor]: Add example using LiteLLM Proxy server (#6197)
langchain-ai/langchainjs: docs/core_docs/docs/integrations/chat/litellm_proxy.mdx

---
sidebar_label: LiteLLM Proxy
---

import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";

# LiteLLM Proxy Server

Use [LiteLLM Proxy](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy) for:

- Calling 100+ LLMs OpenAI, Azure, Vertex, Bedrock/etc using OpenAI format
- Use Virtual Keys to Set Budgets & Track Usage

This allows you to call 100+ LLMs using `ChatOpenAI`

```js
import { ChatOpenAI } from "@langchain/openai";

const model = new ChatOpenAI({
  modelName: "claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620", // swap this for "gpt-4o-mini", "gemini-1.5-pro", "claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620"
  openAIApiKey: "sk-1234",
}, {
  basePath: "http://0.0.0.0:4000", // set basePath to LiteLLM Proxy server
});

const message = await model.invoke("Hi there!");

console.log(message);

> ```

Reviewer: This should either be an imported codeblock from the `examples` directory, or convert this to a notebook (use `tslab` to run typescript in notebooks) and have the code in cells. This way we can verify the code can be executed & run a linter/formatter across it.

Same for the rest of the typescript code blocks below

> ```

Reviewer: This should either be an imported codeblock from the examples directory, or convert this to a notebook (use tslab to run typescript in notebooks) and have the code in cells. This way we can verify the code can be executed & run a linter/formatter across it.

Same for the rest of the typescript code blocks below

Author: done

## Step 1 Setup LiteLLM Proxy config.yaml

> LiteLLM Requires a config with all your models defined - we can call this file `litellm_config.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LiteLLM Requires a config with all your models defined - this file should be named `litellm_config.yaml`
```

> [Detailed docs on how to setup litellm config - here](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/proxy/configs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Detailed docs on how to setup LiteLLM config here](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/proxy/configs)
```

> LiteLLM Requires a config with all your models defined - we can call this file `litellm_config.yaml`
> 
> [Detailed docs on how to setup litellm config - here](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/proxy/configs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LiteLLM Requires a config with all your models defined. This file should be named `litellm_config.yaml`

[Detailed docs on how to setup LiteLLM config here](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/proxy/configs)
```

  - model_name: gpt-azure
    litellm_params:
      model: azure/gpt-turbo-small-ca
      api_base: https://my-endpoint-canada-berri992.openai.azure.com/
      api_key: "os.environ/AZURE_API_KEY"

  # OpenAI API
  # https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/openai
  - model_name: gpt-4o-mini
    litellm_params:
      model: openai/gpt-4o-mini
      api_key: "os.environ/OPENAI_API_KEY"

  # Vertex AI models
  # https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/vertex
  - model_name: gemini-pro
    litellm_params:
      model: vertex_ai_beta/gemini-1.5-pro
      vertex_project: "project-id"
      vertex_location: "us-central1"
      vertex_credentials: "/path/to/service_account.json" # [OPTIONAL] Do this OR `!gcloud auth application-default login` - run this to add vertex credentials to your env
  
  # Bedrock Models
  # https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/bedrock
  - model_name: anthropic-claude
    litellm_params: 
      model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-instant-v1
      aws_access_key_id: os.environ/CUSTOM_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
      aws_secret_access_key: os.environ/CUSTOM_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
      aws_region_name: os.environ/CUSTOM_AWS_REGION_NAME
  
```

> ## Step 2. Start litellm proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Start LiteLLM proxy
```

```shell
docker run \
    -v $(pwd)/litellm_config.yaml:/app/config.yaml \
    -p 4000:4000 \
    -e AZURE_API_KEY \
    -e OPENAI_API_KEY \
    -e CUSTOM_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID \
    -e CUSTOM_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY \
    -e CUSTOM_AWS_REGION_NAME \
    ghcr.io/berriai/litellm:main-latest \
    --config /app/config.yaml --detailed_debug
```

> Proxy will start running on `http://0.0.0.0:4000/` You can use this endpoint to make all LLM Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proxy will start running on `http://0.0.0.0:4000/`. You can use this endpoint to make all LLM requests.
```

## Step 3. Make Requests using ChatOpenAI

> We use Langchain JS to make requests to LiteLLM Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use LangChain.js to make requests to LiteLLM Proxy:
```

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @langchain/openai
```

> You can call all models defined on the `litellm_config.yaml`, all you need to do is change the `modelName`
> 
> ## Call `"gpt-azure"`
> ```js
> import { ChatOpenAI } from "@langchain/openai";
> 
> 
> const model = new ChatOpenAI({
>   modelName: "gpt-azure",

Reviewer: `modelName` is deprecated, prefer `model`
```suggestion
You can call all models defined on the `litellm_config.yaml`, all you need to do is change the `model` param.

## Call `"gpt-azure"`
```js
import { ChatOpenAI } from "@langchain/openai";

const model = new ChatOpenAI({
  model: "gpt-azure",
```

Reviewer: Please update the rest of the `modelName` instances too.
